Will: Great, there you go. So, uh, ask away.

Aron: All right, dude. Well, I guess just for— obviously I know what the Enhanced Games are, what the concept is, but just to kind of get it from yourself for the article, would you kind of give me a description of, of what the concept is and what your, your vision for the Enhanced Games is?

Will: Yeah, the, the Enhanced Games is the third instantiation of the Olympics. So remember, the Olympics starts in ancient Greece and were reinvented in 1896 by Baron Pierre de Coubertin for his era, an era of nationalism, of empire, of the steamship. And now we're reinventing the Olympiad for the 21st century, for an era of science, of technology, where we can push human achievement and boundaries beyond what we can even imagine today.

Aron: It's such a cool, such a cool concept, man. Like, that must feel— the feeling of having that, like, idea of, like, wait, we can reinvent the Olympics again. We can do this a third time. How did that, like, idea come to you? What kind of set you on this quest?

Will: Uh, I had been studying the International Olympic Committee and sports in general for the better part of 20 years, um, and it really wasn't my idea. People like Professor Julian Savalrescu from Oxford University at Harvard University had put out papers about a new Olympics where performance enhancements were allowed. But, you know, simply put, we're not just reinventing the Olympics. We're not even just reinventing sport. We're reinventing medicine and even in some ways what it means to be human. I hope that the Enhanced Games becomes the, you know, the equivalent of the Apollo landing on the moon, where we usher in a new era where humans 2.0 are among us, because that's really what we're doing. We're saying we can become superhuman, and I define superhumanity as where we are no longer limited by our biology.

Aron: That, uh, that fits well with, with the artwork behind you right there.

Will: Yeah, Barack Obama is Superman, uh, by Shepard Fairey behind me.

Aron: Yeah, yeah, that's awesome, man. That's awesome. It, um, it— I, I really like that kind of take on the, the scientific, like, value of doing this. And I really, I want to, like, dig into that a little bit. But before we get to that, like, how, how long has this been something that you have been playing with realistically? Because, like, I, you know, I know the ideas floated, been floated around by academics, and, like, even, like, you know, in colleges and stuff, kids are like, man, what if, what if they just had that Olympic Games where, like, they would just free rein for like the scientists to go nuts. Like the idea has been out there, but like, when was it? How long have you been on this path to like make this happen realistically?

Will: Yeah. So my theory of social change is very simple. Change only happens when someone puts a suit on and goes to work every day trying to solve a problem. Change requires focus. So you can't make change casually. And so as part of my regular annual routine from Christmas until New Year's, when no one else is working, I take my idea of a vacation. I rent a beautiful house on the beach and I take my laptop and I write the business plan for a new business organization or movement that I've thought about creating. And in Christmas 2022, I rented a beautiful apartment in Miami and I sat down and I thought to myself, okay, well, I was seeing what was happening with sports rights with LIV Golf. And I said, Now is the opportunity to reinvent the Olympics. And I thought, you know what, from a blank piece of paper, how would I reinvent the Olympics? And it's not just saying let's add drugs, but also let's fix the other inherently broken aspects of the Olympic business model, principally about infrastructure, security, and athlete remuneration. And that's where the Enhanced Games came to be. And I finished writing the business plan by New Year's Eve. And every New Year's, I have spent, for almost every New Year's the last 15 years, with Peter Thiel. And over dinner, I explained to him, oh, I'm thinking about creating the enhanced Olympics where performance-enhancing drugs like steroids would be allowed. And he said, wow, that's really cool. And I didn't say anything more beyond that. He just said, that's really cool. That's all the validation I needed. And I came back to London. And I said, you know what, let me assemble a team, let's be really focused. And for a few months there, we, we worked on it, uh, very diligently, and that's where it came from.

Aron: Wow, man, that is so wild. I, I imagine like someone like Peter Thiel would see the benefits of not just like reinventing this thing that is a huge, uh, a huge form of entertainment and obviously valuable in that way, but something that has like the scientific value and potential that this, that this has. What was that all along kind of like woven into this idea of not just like reinventing it, but like this is also going to be a huge platform for scientific research?

Will: Exactly. Yeah, that's right. So, so actually the very first person I spoke to about the concept of an Enhanced Games was my father. And my father is a cardiologist by training and is a distinguished scientist. And I didn't tell him that I was going to build Enhanced Games, but I just posited the idea of an enhanced Olympics. And the first thing he said is the data that will come out of that will be so amazing for science.

Aron: Yeah, right.

Will: And, and at the core of this project has always been a very rigorous scientific effort. Like I have a PhD myself. Um, you know, we have eminent clinicians and scientists, people like Professor George Church from Harvard, who are among our advisors. Um, and we've always sought to make this a very important scientific project because ultimately an athlete is going to break world records, and the first thing everyone is going to say is, what is he on and how do I get it? Right? Because I think in the, in the core of all of us, we want to become superhuman, right? The most successful, um, film and television properties of the last, uh, quarter century have been superhero films. And so why shouldn't we have the opportunity to overcome our biological limits and become extraordinary?

Aron: Yeah, well, and especially when the science is there, the, the opportunity is there. Like, I don't understand why people would want to cap like the capability of, of humanity and not like take it that extra step further to see like what is possible.

Will: Uh, that's exactly right. Um, and, uh, the, uh, reality is that when the history of our era is written, the transition from humans 1.0 to humans 2.0 will be such an obvious one. Right.

Aron: Yeah.

Will: And we see the rise of enhancement drugs already. Ozempic, the trillion-dollar wonder drug, is prescribed off-label in the United States 83% of the time. It's a diabetes medication, but it's used for image enhancement purposes. And if you walk around the streets of Los Angeles or Miami, it's very clear that humans are enhanced, some humans at least. And Hollywood has been the center of this. So why shouldn't we allow enhancements in a clinically supervised, safe manner to be done in sports? And, and so much of scientific progress has been held back by a bunch of sports bureaucrats at the Olympic Committee.

Aron: Yeah. And it's, it's honestly a shame because who knows, like what could have been discovered in that time, but starting now is better than later, right?

Will: That's, that's right. Yeah. And, and I think it's pretty simple. As I said, an athlete breaks a world record, there's gonna create immense consumer demand for enhancement products. That's going to create a multi-billion, maybe even trillion-dollar ecosystem, which will fund more money into research and development, which means better, more effective, safer compounds. And it becomes a positive feedback cycle. And I think the conclusion of that effort is where aging becomes a disease that we can treat, cure, and eventually solve.

Aron: Yeah. Oh man, having a hand in that, that would be quite the legacy.

Will: It's quite the legacy. You know, I've built 10 companies. I've had 3 successful exits. My mom often tells me I should be retired. I'm only 39 years old, but I can't think of anything more motivating than to wake up every day and go and work with the most talented and extraordinary people in the world to bring the Enhanced Movement to life. And I don't think of this as a company or as a business. I think this is a social, political, and scientific movement that will inevitably lead to superhumanity.

Aron: Yeah, man. And just like the Olympics potentially has the ability to kind of bring people together in a certain way around a of game, the games, so to speak.

Will: Yeah, and not just the games, but also this shared mission of overcoming our limits through science. So I think of our, our, the unifying moments of humanity, uh, the most important ones have been scientific discoveries or engineering discoveries like the Apollo moon landing. Uh, and so can't we bring the world on a journey together, not divided by nations but united by science, where we all work together to solve aging.

Aron: Okay, well, that's a perfect kind of segue because I'm curious, like, I have questions about, like, the— if— okay, I want to hear kind of your idea of, like, how you're going to set it up. Like, is, is it going to be a semiannual thing? Will it be, like, nations competing against each other, or will it be, like, based on teams of scientists? I don't— like, kind of tell me, like, what, what your vision is for it.

Will: Yeah, so my vision for it is an annual competition. So not every 4 years, but every year, because athletes need more opportunities to engage and monetize. So athletes can make more money because of more content. In terms of organization, athletes will represent themselves, but also their countries. So think of it like tennis or Formula 1. So, you know, when you watch the tennis, it will say, you know, Novak Djokovic of Serbia, but he's not representing Team Serbia. He's representing himself, but he's still wearing the Serbian flag. That's a lot smaller because I think the era of nationalism is over. And there's a huge opportunity to present a different format here. The Olympics can still have a nationalist narrative. And then most importantly, We're only focused on the sports that have the highest television and social media impact. So these are sports like track, swimming, combat, gymnastics, and weightlifting. And these are 5 sports that have low infrastructural requirements. They don't require specialist stadiums. And this avoids the core problem about the Olympic Games, which is that they build a dozen stadiums and they throw them away after 2 weeks. So you can walk down the Place de la Concorde or the Champs-Élysées in Paris, and they are tearing down infrastructure that cost hundreds of millions of dollars to build at gigantic waste. So you can go to Rio, you can go to London, you can go to Athens and see the ruins of Olympic excess in all these empty stadiums. And we're going to avoid that problem by focusing on the sports that matter, that have the lowest level of infrastructure requirement.

Aron: Awesome. That's— and then, so kind of similar to Formula 1, each athlete will have their team of like engineers and, and, and scientists behind them.

Will: That's right. So Formula 1 is a, a great parallel. It's the combination of the athlete and the engineer working together. And in Enhanced, it's the athlete and the scientists. And the reality is that if you're a performance car manufacturer, you have to compete in Formula 1 because it's the ultimate demonstration. Of your engineering prowess.

Aron: Yeah.

Will: And at Enhance, scientists and pharmaceutical companies will have to participate. They will have to sponsor because it is the ultimate avenue for showing the effectiveness of their products.

Aron: That makes perfect sense. Yeah. And so there will probably be a lot of pharmaceutical companies sponsoring athlete teams and that sort of thing.

Will: That's right. And I don't think it's just pharmaceutical companies. Because if you think of a brand like Nike, they have a $114 billion market capitalization that is based on one core mythology, which is that the fastest people in the world wear their shoes. And the reality is that the fastest people in the world will no doubt be at the Enhanced Games. And so if you're Nike, you don't just need to sponsor the Enhanced Games, you sort of have to because your entire brand is built on this one fact. And it's, I think it's actually becomes very simple. As human beings, we're hardwired to want to see the best. We don't care if they're Black or white, rich or poor, amateur or professional, natural or enhanced. We just want to see the fastest and the best athletes compete. And with world records being broken at the Enhanced Games, fans, broadcasters, host cities, athletes will always wanna be at the Enhanced Games. They wouldn't wanna be part of the old slow Olympics. They wanna be part of the fast modern Enhanced Games.

Aron: I like that. I like that take on it. It's, I do, I, that has been one of my, well, it's like kind of the big question, right? Like how, how do you overcome the stigma of like drugs and like get athletes and companies like Nike interested in like participating in this?

Will: Yeah, so there is a great historic parallel. From 1896 until 1992, professional athletes were banned from Olympic competition. Being a professional athlete was seen as cheating. It was seen as polluting the integrity of sport. It was seen as being ungentlemanly. And what ended up happening is that professional athletes were just a lot better than amateur athletes. And now we don't even think of amateurism as a factor of sportsmanship. And in the same way, it's a snowball effect. So when I started the Enhanced Games, people were like, Aaron, you're just crazy, right? This is not going to go anywhere. No one will support this. You're going to ruin your— the brand that you've built up and the reputation that you've worked so hard for, for so long. And now investors are throwing money at me like I can't even believe. Cities are lining up to host the games. Athletes are lining up to participate. Sponsors message me every day. Media companies message me every day. And there's such interest in what we are doing and it becomes a compounding effect. And, you know, I think it's actually just very, very simple. One or two athletes breaking a couple of world records at the first games. And then it's like, This thing's clearly happening, right? It's captivated the global imagination. Who's going to want to watch old slow sports? And the reality is that athletes get more famous as their careers go on, but their bodies decline. And so Cristiano Ronaldo, who's almost 40 years old now, has more Instagram followers than he's ever had, but he's not able to play football at the same level. But science and technology will allow him to extend his careers, and this actually will drive him at peak monetization. So athletes are highly incented to support enhancements because it increases their careers and longevity.

Aron: Well, and that's an interesting point too, because it's like it's almost already happening, right? It's just we've drawn a line where we say, like, these are okay enhancements. These ones are not legal to use.

Will: Yeah. And that's always been a very blurry line. So for example, creatine, when creatine came out after the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, it was billed as a super steroid. You know, it was, you know, read the headlines in the New York Times. It said it's cheating no matter how you, however you look at it. And now creatine, you can get it in your protein shake at Joe and the Juice. It's everywhere, right? It's everywhere, right? Like, and, you know, it's very clear, like governments, whether it was in East Germany, the United States, Russia, or China, have undertaken state-sanctioned doping programs. And the best athletes in the world, 44% of athletes admit to using banned substances in the last year.

Aron: Yeah. And it, that's, that's, I've talked with my friends about this too, like the Olympics, like, So much of this is already happening at the Olympics under, you know, under the table and like they're trying to be sneaky about it and the cheating is going on. Like it's all like the Olympics are kind of an enhanced games in their own right, but like a really not, I don't know, I don't know.

Will: It's hidden. So, you know, an athlete who goes onto bodybuilding.com and gets some bro science and orders some drugs online. Is not doing it the right way, right? Enhanced Games is all about high-quality clinical supervision with full regulatory support. And so the outcomes will be better. Even if an athlete is already enhanced and competing in Olympic competition, they're trying to hide from the drug testers. Yeah. So instead of hiding, let's do it all out in the open. Let's generate, you know, very high-quality research data that we can use to improve compounds, to improve performance, and improve safety. And I always believe that shining a light upon the darkness will lead to a better and safer outcome.

Aron: Would the, the research that you're generating from this be a source of revenue for the games as well?

Will: No doubt. No doubt. And what I always point to, you know, is SemPic is worth $1 trillion and is added to the market capitalization of Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly. Yeah. If you add up the value of all the artificial intelligence startups, including OpenAI, they're only worth $200 billion. The one enhancement drug is worth 5x of all of artificial intelligence. Get that around your head about how big this market is. The human enhancement market is the largest market ever in the history of the world.

Aron: Okay, so it seems like that might even be your main source of revenue from this. Do you think, like, how would viewership— like, are you planning— how will people, like, watch it? Is it something that they'll have to, like, pay for a subscription to a service?

Will: Um, it'll be on a major streaming service and our partners on social media. So our goal is to make it very accessible for everyone to view.

Aron: That's awesome, because that was some— one of the big things that— it's been this way forever, but like this year I heard a lot of people griping about, like, man, I'd love to watch the Olympics, but I don't have a subscription to—

Will: yeah, I'm not on, like, Peacock talk or something, right?

Aron: Yeah, yeah, exactly. So that's, that's really cool to hear, man. Um, what, what's the timeline on this thing, man? Like, when is the first Enhanced Games going to happen?

Will: So, uh, we'll send you an invitation to the media launch event, which will happen, uh, December, January of this year. We're just locking down the date now. Uh, where are you based?

Aron: I'm in Colorado.

Will: Colorado. It's definitely going to be in the United States. Okay. And it's going to be like an Apple-style keynote announcement. So Apple doesn't say, hey, here's, you know, one feature and then another feature. No, they just say, this is the new iPhone and it's amazing. And so at a keynote address, I'm going to be outlining where the games are, when they are, the delivery partners, the key athletes, prize money, the whole nine yards. And I can tell you it's going to be absolutely amazing. We're already scripting it out, and, uh, I, I can't, uh, give you the sneak peek on it, but it's gonna be really good.

Aron: That's awesome, man. That's— that has to be really exciting. That's— I mean, that's coming up.

Will: It's coming up. Yeah, yeah. My, my team, uh, is, is writing my speech as we speak, uh, and, you know, we're in very close negotiations with host cities, uh, to deliver the games, uh, and, uh, it's going to be a very, very exciting announcement. And I think the members of the Olympic Committee are going to be absolutely shocked when they hear, uh, that announcement.

Aron: Oh man, what to be a— to be a fly on the wall in that room. Um, Aaron, man, I, I really, really appreciate you taking the time to talk with me today. This is like such a fascinating idea, and I'm so stoked to write about it, man.

Will: Great, wonderful. Well, when the article comes out, uh, let me know if there's anything else we can do to help, uh, just loop in, I think, Mike from my team, who's our director of communications. Yeah. And we're very pleased to have you to share our story. It really means a lot to us because, you know, at the end of the day, you know, this was just an idea that I had sitting in my apartment in Miami less than 2 years ago. And now we've captured a whole global conversation. We've shifted the entire discourse, and it's thanks to people like you. So thank you very much for making the time.

Aron: Oh, absolutely, man. I'm very excited. Um, yeah, I'll share a link with, uh, with your team once, once it's up.

Will: Okay, great. You have a lovely day.

Aron: Perfect. You as well. Thanks.

Will: Bye.